# text-mining

## 1. Project Overview
I used the news article 'Biden assumes presidency at Capitol saying 'democracy has prevailed' from 'ABC News' as my source. The news article is published on the day of Joe Biden's inauguration day back in January 20, 2021. As one of the most well-known news media in the U.S., I think it will be particularly interesting to see the words choice of the article to see what kind of information they were trying to deliver to the audience, in other words, a glimpse of ABC's attitude towards the new president. The techniques I used include: Characterizing by Word Frequencies, and Natural Language Processing (Sentiment Analysis).

## 2. Implementation
I start with taking a general scan at the article. Utilizing the codes provided on the instruction page, I inputed functions that can look at the important components of article such as title, author, publish date, etc. Looking at the instructios ad example codes, besides summary, I found many view the 'keywords' function as a way to define the article. I then wonder if the keywords generated here are an acurrate depiction of the message of the article, or should we consider the words that appreaed most frequently. Carrying this question, I used functions that returns dictionary of words based on their frequncy from high to low. Then I found the top high frequncy words are actually words with no meanings such as "the", "to", "in", etc. I then used the function to return a set with words in an appointed file which will be addressed in the following code, the appointed file contains text like those mentioned above that have no meanings, known as stop words. In addition, I used anothe function to clean the text, by removing punctuations and converting uppercase with lowercase letters, by doing this, same words that are double or even triple-counted for having punctuations or uppercases can be avoided. Then after I generate a new output of words frequency excluding stop words, punctuations, and uppercases, I found they still don't showcase strong "sentiment". To explore teh article's attitude towards Biden, I used Sentiment Analysis to see the words connotation. Only with all functions mentioned above, I could have a borader view and more reliable assumption on the message that the article was trying to deliver through words use.

## 3. Results
From the functions of Characterizing by Word Frequencies, I found the top 10 words that have been used the most in the article are: {'biden': 25, 'president': 13, 'nation': 10, 'said': 9, 'capitol': 8, 'day': 8, 'office': 7, 'joe': 6, 'us': 6, 'inauguration': 6, first': 6,}
Based on this observation, it can be seen that the article is mainly addressing Biden's inaguration event, had emphasis on the main character -- 'joe' 'biden', and his identity -- 'president' of the 'nation', what he 'said' on teh 'day' of the event after he takes the 'office', as well as where the 'inauguration' ceremony will take place --- 'capitol'. Also, words with high frequncies such as 'us' and 'first' are relatively hard to identify their relationshop with the article's content witout looking at them in context. Fore xample, after removing punctuation and converting uppercase with lowercase letters from the text, it is hard to tell if 'us' means 'U.S' or just 'us'. From just looking at these high frequency words, it is difficult to find a strong attitude towards Biden nor the event itself, making the article looking more like unbiased fact-statements.
From the functions of Natural Language Processing (Sentiment Analysis), the words connotation in the text are: {'neg': 0.065, 'neu': 0.835, 'pos': 0.1, 'compound': 0.9933}.
Based on this observation, we can see the ratio of words with negative engagements is 6.5%, words with neutral engagements is 83.5%, words with positive engagements is 10%, compound words is 99.33%. The analysis shows that, words with negative engagements take a very small part of the overall text, neutral words take up over 80% and words with positive engagements take up 10%. Here, having the compound word ratio being around 99%, since the compound here indicates the sum of positive, negative and neutral scores that is normalized between -1(most extreme negative) and +1 (most extreme positive). And in our case, having compoud score closer to +1, the positivity of the text is also higher. Indicating the article may more have a neutral or positive attitude towards Biden or its inauguration.
Comparing the two methodlogies, I found the Sentiment Analysis may provide a more direct overview on the "attitude" of the article but no information about teh content of the article, and the Word Frequncies disclose fewer directional infromation on the attitude of the article but slighlty more information about what the article is talking about.

## 4. Reflection
From a process point of view, what went well? What could you improve? Other possible reflection topics: Was your project appropriately scoped? Did you have a good plan for testing? How will you use what you learned going forward? What do you wish you knew before you started that would have helped you succeed?
From this project, I summarized several takeaways. First, to really grasp what the news article is talking about, none of the methods above are helpful. For example, as mentioned and confused in the results section above, for high frequency words such as 'us' that are not included in the stop words since they do having meanings but also do not contain obvious connotation without context, Word Frequencies method is then unhelpful. Only after I read through the article itself, I can relate those words ('us' -- U.S., 'first'-- first female vice president). And as for Sentiment Analysis, it does not even indicate any content. Other methodologies should be implemented for better results. And in this case, to have a better overview on the content of the article, I think the 'keyword' function is more suitable for this task. Second, I think the Sentiment Analysis does demonstrate a decent reflection on the 'sentiment' or 'attitude' of the article. After reading the article myself, I also have the same understanding as the result given by the analysis (which is neutral and more positive tendency). The article seems to be mostly reporting the event facts, and delicately described some of Biden's positive actions, making the whole article seems to be pro-Biden. Third, in fact, to have a more in-depth undersatnding on how these methods help analyze news articles, I think besides ABC news which is often considered as a more 'neutral' and 'unbiased' media, we should implement the methods and analysis on more media that often shows more biases, such as CNN (Left) and Fox (Right).
